As a product manager looking to integrate
qualitative data into your iterative cycle of design,
there are many methods of research that can be used.
In this section, we'll discuss three of the most popular methods of
qualitative research used by product managers today: focus groups,
interviews, and usability testing.
One of the most common methods for collecting qualitative data is the focus group.
A focus group is a group of participants from
your target market gathered together in one room with a moderator.
The moderator leads the group in a discussion of topics
around your product and/or a potential new feature.
The thoughts and feelings of the participants in the group can be
used to ensure a product is going in the right direction.
As a method for collecting qualitative data,
focus groups provide benefits,
including that they are time-saving compared to
other methods of one-on-one qualitative research.
A focus group can typically contains 6-10 participants.
So 6-10 people can provide their opinions at once.
However, the shared nature of a focus group also has its drawbacks.
For example, because the focus group has multiple participants and a limited time,
the moderator doesn't have much time to dig into
any one individual's background or journey to using the product.
Also, participants in a focus group may be swayed by the opinion of others,
leading to group think that decreases the usefulness of the qualitative data gathered.
Another common qualitative research method often used
as an alternative to the focus group is the user interview.
A user interview is a one-on-one discussion with a customer or potential customer.
The interview script may focus on
the user journey or seek opinions on a potential new feature.
An interview has several benefits,
including providing the opportunity to dig deeply into an interviewee's journey,
including the ability to ask
follow-up questions to better understand a user's perspective.
Another benefit is that, unlike focus groups,
an interview takes place with only one person at a time.
So that person isn't as likely to be influenced by the opinions of others.
A user interview does have drawbacks,
the largest of which may be that interviews are time-consuming.
They have to be done one by one and often take up to an hour.
Getting the opinions of just 10 people can take more than a full day of work.
The third qualitative research method we'll discuss in this section is usability testing.
Usability testing is when a user or potential user is
asked to actually click through a product or prototype to accomplish a task.
The usability tester may be asked to think out loud and explain why they're
clicking and what elements confuse them as they try to reach their assigned goal.
Usability testing provides benefits,
including the ability to get feedback on
actual designs and the ability to see issues with feature design in real time.
Observing places where a users struggles or is unsure how to complete
a task provides data on how to make a product easier to use.
While usability testing has many benefits,
it also has drawbacks.
The most significant drawback is that usability testing is
only really helpful once a prototype or user experience exists.
Usability testing focuses on the actual user interaction with the product.
It is most useful in the testing step of iterative design instead of
in the explore stage like other qualitative research methods discussed here.